WIM: Hello everyone.
In this short lecture, I want to
explain some basics of Haskell
through examples from other
languages that you might know.
I will explain expressions,
functions, types, and lists
just through example
without any deep detail.
So first, expressions.
In almost any
programming language,
you can write expressions
such as, for example--
and you can bind
these to variables
so that this expression value
is contained in that variable.
In Haskell, you can do the
same thing, and what is more,
in Haskell there are
only expressions,
whereas in most
imperative languages
there are statements
and expressions.
Haskell only has expressions.
So the next basic
element of Haskell
is, of course, functions.
And we can compare functions
in Haskell, for instance,
with functions in Python.
In Python you might
write something
like-- so you define a function,
hello, which takes an argument,
name, and you return a string
composed of the string, hello,
and combined with name.
So in Haskell you can do
something quite similar, only
a bit shorter.
So Haskell has
very compact syntax
where you don't need parentheses
to identify function arguments.
You just use spaces.
And the concatenation operator
is separate from the addition
operator.
The next basic element
of Haskell is types.
Types are very
important in Haskell,
and we will talk a lot
about it, but for now we
just want to give an example
based on types in languages
that you might know
like C or Java.
So for example, in C you could
define a function like this.
So we have a function
that takes two integers
and returns an integer.
So in Haskell we can
write something similar,
but the main difference
is that the type
declarations and the function
definitions are separate.
So we start with the
type declaration.
That would be-- so the double
colon indicates that a type
declaration follows.
And then we have the first
argument is an integer.
The second argument
is an integer.
The return value is an integer.
Then the function definition.
So again, essentially the same
thing but much more compact.
So the final basic element of
Haskell that I want to discuss
is lists.
In many languages, such as
Ruby, JavaScript, and Python,
you can write lists like this.
And, in fact, in Haskell
this is exactly the same.
So this is valid Haskell code.
So lists are a very
important component
of the Haskell language.
We'll talk a lot more about
them in future classes.